# Finalproject
Business problem - In current world when a user does a web search for a restaurant in his/her area it returns the point in time rating of business and does not give a comparative rating of venue compared to other venues in the area. 
As part of this project, I am intending to provide a plotting of how an individual venue is rated in comparoson to other venues in the same area. In order to get the data I am intending to use Frousquare API for venues explore around an area. For my project i have used Soho neihgborhood in Manhattan borough to get the details.
For ease of projection the details i have only fetched 20 restaurants in Soho neighborhood. We have details of venue id, Name, Category, Latitude and Longitude for the venue returned by the venue explore API. This is stored in dataset nearby_venues.
Plan was to use another Foursquare API to get details for each venue (Venue details API). But I encountered an error with Quota exceeded while making API calls. So i created a dataset in python which had mocked up data created for the 20 venues fetched above in dataset nearby_venues. This is stored in dataset final_pd.
Merge both the datasets final_pd and nearby_venues on venue id column. Now final_pd as columns Id, Name, Category, Latitude, Longitude, price, likes and ratings.
The final merged dataset is also stored in the data folder in excel format. 
Now i have created a logic to give weightage to 3 different columns ratings, price and likes. I have used 50% weightage for ratings fetched from Foursqaure, 40% weightage to the average price indicator from Foursquare (it has values from 1 to 4, 1 means less costly and 4 being highest costly) and 10% weghtage to the likes returned from Fourquare (as lots of people might not be actually registerng likes on the website). So i have used formula of (0.5 * ratings + (0.1 * likes/50) - 0.4 * price). Here you can notice that i have divided likes by 50. I wanted to have likes represented as categorical value as it ranged from under 50 to 300. So all the values of likes ranged from 1 to 6 and then used the same in the formula. This gives the comparative rating of each of the venue and more clarity on which restaurant is more likely to be chosen in case of venues which have same ratings (as cost or likes can influence the choice being made).
